Abstract
We introduce a new language representa-
tion model called BERT, which stands for
Bidirectional Encoder Representations from
Transformers. Unlike recent language repre-
sentation models (Peters et al., 2018a; Rad-
ford et al., 2018), BERT is designed to pre-
train deep bidirectional representations from
unlabeled text by jointly conditioning on both
left and right context in all layers. As a re-
sult, the pre-trained BERT model can be fine-
tuned with just one additional output layer
to create state-of-the-art models for a wide
range of tasks, such as question answering and
language inference, without substantial task-
specific architecture modifications.
BERT is conceptually simple and empirically
powerful. It obtains new state-of-the-art re-
sults on eleven natural language processing
tasks, including pushing the GLUE score to
80.5% (7.7% point absolute improvement),
MultiNLI accuracy to 86.7% (4.6% absolute
improvement), SQuAD v1.1 question answer-
ing Test F1 to 93.2 (1.5 point absolute im-
provement) and SQuAD v2.0 Test F1 to 83.1
(5.1 point absolute improvement).
1 Introduction
Language model pre-training has been shown to
be effective for improving many natural language
processing tasks (Dai and Le, 2015; Peters et al.,
2018a; Radford et al., 2018; Howard and Ruder,
2018). These include sentence-level tasks such as
natural language inference (Bowman et al., 2015;
Williams et al., 2018) and paraphrasing (Dolan
and Brockett, 2005), which aim to predict the re-
lationships between sentences by analyzing them
holistically, as well as token-level tasks such as
named entity recognition and question answering,
where models are required to produce fine-grained
output at the token level (Tjong Kim Sang and
De Meulder, 2003; Rajpurkar et al., 2016).
There are two existing strategies for apply-
ing pre-trained language representations to down-
stream tasks: feature-based and fine-tuning. The
feature-based approach, such as ELMo (Peters
et al., 2018a), uses task-specific architectures that
include the pre-trained representations as addi-
tional features. The fine-tuning approach, such as
the Generative Pre-trained Transformer (OpenAI
GPT) (Radford et al., 2018), introduces minimal
task-specific parameters, and is trained on the
downstream tasks by simply fine-tuning all pre-
trained parameters. The two approaches share the
same objective function during pre-training, where
they use unidirectional language models to learn
general language representations.
We argue that current techniques restrict the
power of the pre-trained representations, espe-
cially for the fine-tuning approaches. The ma-
jor limitation is that standard language models are
unidirectional, and this limits the choice of archi-
tectures that can be used during pre-training. For
example, in OpenAI GPT, the authors use a left-to-
right architecture, where every token can only at-
tend to previous tokens in the self-attention layers
of the Transformer (Vaswani et al., 2017). Such re-
strictions are sub-optimal for sentence-level tasks,
and could be very harmful when applying fine-
tuning based approaches to token-level tasks such
as question answering, where it is crucial to incor-
porate context from both directions.
In this paper, we improve the fine-tuning based
approaches by proposing BERT: Bidirectional
Encoder Representations from Transformers.
BERT alleviates the previously mentioned unidi-
rectionality constraint by using a “masked lan-
guage model” (MLM) pre-training objective, in-
spired by the Cloze task (Taylor, 1953). The
masked language model randomly masks some of
the tokens from the input, and the objective is to
predict the original vocabulary id of the masked
4172word based only on its context. Unlike left-to-
right language model pre-training, the MLM ob-
jective enables the representation to fuse the left
and the right context, which allows us to pre-
train a deep bidirectional Transformer. In addi-
tion to the masked language model, we also use
a “next sentence prediction” task that jointly pre-
trains text-pair representations. The contributions
of our paper are as follows:
• We demonstrate the importance of bidirectional
pre-training for language representations. Un-
like Radford et al. (2018), which uses unidirec-
tional language models for pre-training, BERT
uses masked language models to enable pre-
trained deep bidirectional representations. This
is also in contrast to Peters et al. (2018a), which
uses a shallow concatenation of independently
trained left-to-right and right-to-left LMs.
• We show that pre-trained representations reduce
the need for many heavily-engineered task-
specific architectures. BERT is the first fine-
tuning based representation model that achieves
state-of-the-art performance on a large suite
of sentence-level and token-level tasks, outper-
forming many task-specific architectures.
• BERT advances the state of the art for eleven
NLP tasks. The code and pre-trained mod-
els are available at https://github.com/
google-research/bert.