Introduction
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder–decoder architectures.

In this work we propose the Transformer, a model architecture eschewing recurrence and instead relying entirely on an attention mechanism to draw global dependencies between input and output. The Transformer allows for significantly more parallelization and can reach a new state of the art in translation quality after being trained for as little as twelve hours on eight P100 GPUs.

Background
The goal of reducing sequential computation also forms the foundation of the Extended Neural GPU, ByteNet and ConvS2S, all of which use convolutional neural networks as basic building block, computing hidden representations in parallel for all input and output positions. In these models, the number of operations required to relate signals from two arbitrary input or output positions grows in the distance between positions, linearly for ConvS2S and logarithmically for ByteNet. This makes it more difficult to learn dependencies between distant positions. In the Transformer this is reduced to a constant number of operations, albeit at the cost of reduced effective resolution due to averaging attention‑weighted positions, an effect we counteract with Multi‑Head Attention.

Model Architecture
Most competitive neural sequence transduction models have an encoder–decoder structure. Here, the encoder maps an input sequence of symbol representations to a sequence of continuous representations. The decoder then generates an output sequence of symbols one element at a time in an auto‑regressive fashion. The Transformer follows this architecture using stacked self‑attention and point‑wise, fully connected layers for both encoder and decoder. Residual connections and layer normalization are applied throughout.
